docs(clustered): data ingest lifecycle (#5369)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/clustered/write-data/best-practices/data-lifecycle.md

---
title: Data ingest lifecycle best practices
seotitle: InfluxDB best practices for data ingest lifecycle management
description: >
  Best practices for managing the lifecycle of data ingested into InfluxDB.
menu:
  influxdb_clustered:
    name: Data ingest lifecycle
    weight: 201
    parent: write-best-practices
---

Data ingested into InfluxDB must conform to the retention period set on the database.
Any data which lies outside of this retention period is no longer considered for retrieval by a query, but can have references maintained in object storage or the Postgres catalog, causing an increase in operational overhead and drive higher costs.

In order to reduce these factors, it is important to manage the lifecycle of ingested data. You can achieve this by following the best practices below:

- Use a retention policy which is appropriate for your requirements.

> - Tune the garbage collector cutoff period to ensure that data is removed in a timely manner.

Author: I've removed the specific recommendation of object store versioning here because it is organisation-dependent for their DR/backups strategy.

### Garbage collector tuning

Once data falls outside of the retention period it can now be removed by the garbage collector service.

There are two variables which tune this process:

- `INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF`: the age at which a parquet file not referenced in the catalog becomes eligible for deletion from object storage. The default is `30d`.
- `INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_PARQUETFILE_CUTOFF`: defines how long to retain the row referencing a parquet file in the catalog once marked for deletion. The default is `30d`.

Our recommendation is to keep these values aligned and you should set these to a value which matches your organisation's backup and recovery strategy.

For example a value of `6h` (6 hours) would be appropriate for running a lean catalog that only maintains references to recent data.
The assumption here is no backup requirement.

> Use the following scenarios as a guide for different use cases:

Author: I've added some example scenarios and what they might mean for the variable tuning.

I'm not quite sure on the wording here for things like "leading edge data", it _sounds_ right to me but there's maybe a more common phrase that is used for things like this.

{{% expand "Leading edge data, no backups" %}}

When only the most recent data is important and backups are not required, you can utilise a very low cutoff point for the garbage collector.

```yaml
apiVersion: kubecfg.dev/v1alpha1
kind: AppInstance
metadata:
  name: influxdb
  namespace: influxdb
spec:
  package:
    # Surrounding configuration parameters have been snipped for brevity
    spec:
      components:
       garbage-collector:
         template:
           containers:
             iox:
               env:
                 INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF: '6h',
                 INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_PARQUETFILE_CUTOFF: '6h',
```

Using a low value here means that the garbage collector service will promptly delete files from the configured object store and remove rows from the catalog.
Resulting in a lean catalog with minimal operational overhead.

{{% /expand %}}

> {{% expand "Leading edge data with longer retention required" %}}

Reviewer: Maybe this?

```suggestion
{{% expand "Custom Backup Window - Using S3 Versioning" %}}
```

The only difference between this, and the other option below is that we utilise S3 to make sure there's files for 90 days, instead of the garbage collector.

> In this scenario, we maintain a low cutoff point for the garbage collector service.

Reviewer: What do you think to:

```suggestion
In this scenario, we maintain a low cutoff point for the garbage collector service, and make use of an object versioning policy to ensure expired files are kept for the specified backup window time.
```

Object versioning is used to maintain the files for a longer duration, whilst allowing the catalog to no longer maintain their references.

> Noncurrent objects should be expired based on the requirements of your organisation.

Reviewer: We can hint to them what requirements should be considered when evaluating this:

```suggestion
Noncurrent objects should be configured to be expried as soon as possible, but retained long enough to satisfy your organisation's backup policy.
```

It'll help people who read this and go "which requirements is that?!" :D

For example, an [AWS S3 lifecycle rule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lifecycle-mgmt.html) to expire non-current objects after 90 days will look like the following:

```json
{
    "Rules": [
        {
            "ID": "my-lifecycle-rule",
            "Filter": {
                "Prefix": ""
            },
            "Status": "Enabled",
            "NoncurrentVersionExpiration": {
                "NoncurrentDays": 90
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

The tuning of the `garbage-collector` is shown below:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubecfg.dev/v1alpha1
kind: AppInstance
metadata:
  name: influxdb
  namespace: influxdb
spec:
  package:
    # Surrounding configuration parameters have been snipped for brevity
    spec:
      components:
       garbage-collector:
         template:
           containers:
             iox:
               env:
                 INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF: '6h',
                 INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_PARQUETFILE_CUTOFF: '6h',
```
{{% /expand %}}

> {{% expand "Long retention" %}}
> 
> If your organisation requires a longer retention period for files, you may wish to increase these values past their defaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% expand "Custom Backup Window - No S3 Versioning" %}}

If your organisation cannot make use of S3 versioning policies but still requires a backup window, you must configure the garbage collector to retain the files for as long as your backup period requires.

If possible, using S3 versioning is preferred.
```

This makes it clear why you would use this over the one above I think? And a "don't do this unless you have to" pointer to get them on the right track if they can use S3 versioning.

InfluxDB cluster:

- [Use appropriate retention periods](#use-appropriate-retention-periods)
- [Tune garbage collection](#tune-garbage-collection)

## Use appropriate retention periods

When [creating or updating a database](/influxdb/clustered/admin/databases/#create-a-database),
use a retention period that is appropriate for your requirements.
Storing data longer than is required adds unnecessary operational cost to your
InfluxDB cluster.

## Tune garbage collection

Once data falls outside of a database's retention period, the garbage collection
service can remove all artifacts associated with the data from the Catalog and Object store.
Tune the garbage collector cutoff period to ensure that data is removed in a timely manner.

Use the following environment variables to tune the garbage collector:

- `INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF`: the age at which Parquet files not
  referenced in the Catalog become eligible for deletion from Object storage.
  The default is `30d`.
- `INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_PARQUETFILE_CUTOFF`: how long to retain rows in the Catalog
  that reference Parquet files marked for deletion. The default is `30d`.

> {{% warn %}}
> **These must NEVER be set to a value less than `3h` (3 hours).**
> 
> IOx requires a grace period before files can be removed.
> {{% /warn %}}

Reviewer 2: Where this will be/is enforced server-side, I think we can soften the language a bit.

```suggestion
{{% warn %}}
To ensure there is a grace period before files and references are removed, the
minimum garbage collector (GC) object store and Parquet file cutoff time is
three hours (`3h`).
{{% /warn %}}
```

---
title: Data ingest lifecycle best practices
seotitle: InfluxDB best practices for data ingest lifecycle management
description: >
  Best practices for managing the lifecycle of data ingested into InfluxDB.
menu:
  influxdb_clustered:
    name: Data ingest lifecycle
    weight: 201
    parent: write-best-practices
---

Data ingested into InfluxDB must conform to the retention period set on the database.
Any data which lies outside of this retention period is no longer considered for retrieval by a query, but can have references maintained in object storage or the Postgres catalog, causing an increase in operational overhead and drive higher costs.

In order to reduce these factors, it is important to manage the lifecycle of ingested data. You can achieve this by following the best practices below:

- Use a retention policy which is appropriate for your requirements.
- Tune the garbage collector cutoff period to ensure that data is removed in a timely manner.

> - Enable versioning in your object store and use lifecycle rules to expire old data.

Author: > no need to enable object versioning to manage the file lifecycle

I was wondering whether this was being conflated as I was writing it.

My understanding was that the object versioning _enables_ our lower value of `6h` in Serverless/Dedicated, but perhaps that actually isn't quite right? Versioning is merely a mechanism for GC to delete things and creates a new "version" on the deletion - the catalog can be smaller because of this though.

The deleted version being around is a helper for DR, although from speaking with Raphael a bit, and as you say, the tooling is a little lacking for restores.

Is that a better/more correct understanding?

> - Enable versioning in your object store and use lifecycle rules to expire old data.

Reviewer: > My understanding was that the object versioning enables our lower value of 6h in Serverless/Dedicated, but perhaps that actually isn't quite right?

Note quite - lets assume that you, as a customer, do not care about backups - there's no point keeping any file longer than you need it. As soon as a file is no longer queryable (expired due to being outside the retention period) then there's no point in keeping that file. It can be deleted immediately![^kinda] Set your GC retention to 6h and don't bother with bucket versioning - you're never gonna read the thing.

You only need to keep old files around, if you need to access them again in the future - you only need to do that if you roll back the catalog to an older version ("restoring a backup"). Keeping old files is **only for backup purposes**.

If you do want backups, then you need those old files in case you roll back! It becomes a question of how and when those files get deleted - either delete after 30days, or delete them now and let S3 delete them in 30 days. In either case, you only need them for backup purposes!

[^kinda]: Ignoring outstanding queries and caches, so not quite immediately, but close enough.

### Garbage collector tuning

Once data falls outside of the retention period it can now be removed by the garbage collector service.

There are two variables which tune this process:

> - `INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF`: defines when objects are deleted from object storage. The default is `30d`.
> - `INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_PARQUETFILE_CUTOFF`: defines when a row can be deleted from the catalog. The default is `30d`.

Reviewer 3: I reckon these could benefit from being a bit more explicit here, so the interaction is clearer. Perhaps something like this:

```suggestion
- `INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF`: the age at which a parquet file not referenced in the catalog becomes eligible for deletion from object storage. The default is `30d`.
- `INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_PARQUETFILE_CUTOFF`: defines how long to retain the row referencing a parquet file in the catalog once marked for deletion. The default is `30d`.
```
